In the quiet of the desert, inside his tent,
Hamad sits peacefully.
His tent represents his computer, his digital home,
where all his precious files live safely.
Through the golden sky, a saqer soars across the dunes,
a messenger bird,
carrying what appears to be an innocent envelope.
This is email, the modern world's messenger.
The saqer drops the envelope right at Hamad's tent.
Thud, there it sits, seemingly harmless.
Hamad spots the envelope outside his tent.
He reaches out, picks it up, and examines it.
It looks legitimate, it looks safe.
This is exactly how computer viruses work.
They disguise themselves as normal files,
attachments, documents, downloads,
and we open them without a second thought.
Hamad opens the envelope and begins reading.
But while his attention is captured by the letter's contents,
something sinister is happening,
something he can't see yet.
There, sticking out from inside the envelope,
a virus!
a malicious digital creature that hitched a ride in the attachment.
This is how viruses spread,
hidden inside innocent-looking files,
waiting for the moment you open them,
and once you do, they spring to life.
The virus doesn't waste a second.
It starts multiplying.
One becomes two
two becomes four
four becomes eight.
This is the primary behavior of a computer virus: replication.
They copy themselves over and over,
spreading through your system like wildfire.
And now, chaos!
The tent is swarming with viruses.
They are chewing through Hamad's pillows,
his files, corrupting them, destroying them.
This is what viruses do
They infect your documents, your photos, your programs,
rendering them useless.
Some viruses delete files
others corrupt them beyond repair
and some, they spread to every file they can find.
Hamad panics.
“What’s happening? How do I stop this?”
His peaceful tent has become a nightmare.
Everything he owns is being destroyed right before his eyes.
But wait !
through the chaos, a figure emerges
an old man with a lamp
This is the antivirus
the defender, the protector.
Just as the lamp brings light to darkness,
antivirus software brings protection to your digital world.
The old man raises his lamp high
and points it directly at the virus.
The light illuminates them, exposing their presence.
This is what antivirus software does
It scans your system,
detecting malicious code that’s hiding in your files.
One by one, the viruses dissolve under the lamp’s light,
gone, eliminated.
The antivirus has successfully removed the threats.
The tent starts to calm.
But look closely
the viruses are gone, but the damage remains.
The pillows are torn, the files are corrupted.
Some things can never be recovered.